### Roles

The following are the different users to which the document refers.

#### (End) User

The end user, or "user" for short, is the principle target of the application
and akin as to the user of a typical traditional application. In Konduit, a user
interfaces via a mobile application and is able to pay for goods and services in
a manner indistinguishable from users of Bitcoin Lightning. End user's can
manage their channels, and review their usage.

The primary target user is anyone currently holding Ada, and has some
participation in the network. They have a mobile running a popular OS, and that
supports third party applications. On the product adoption curve, they will be
innovators or early adopters, with some understanding of crypto currencies but
are not necessarily technical. The secondary target user is anyone using crypto
and wants a point of purchase solution with their crypto.

#### (Node) Operator

A node operator runs (some of) the "back-end services" of Konduit, along side a
BLN node. All Cardano based channels consist of one end user and one node
operator. A node operator accepts payment in the Cardano channel and forwards
payment on to BLN, in exchange for a fee. As the node operator routes payment,
they may also be referred to as a "router".

The primary target operator is either:

- An SPO, or similar: they run Cardano related infrastructure
- A BLN node operator with some inclination to support Cardano

They understand crypto currencies and are technically capable with respect to
infrastructure. They can confidently plumb in docker images.

#### Dev

Konduit does not intend to be a complete, and standalone piece of software. The
project output must also cater to developers to inspire, contribute, maintain,
and extend the project.

The primary target dev is a dev with some exposure to the Cardano ecosystem.
They may have limited or deep experience of the mechanics and components of
Cardano. A secondary target dev is a dev with experience in the general crypto
ecosystem, not including Cardano.

#### Marketer

"Marketers" is anyone wishing to understand the value of Konduit, but is neither
a direct user of the software, nor a developer or deeply technically inclined.
The project output shall include material to address their wants, such as
supporting documentation and usage metrics.

The primary target marketer are those in BD in a Cardano focused entity, such as
CF.
